The company's name is Bolton's Vermont Distilling Company, affectionately known to employees and loyal customers as Bolton's or BVer (pronounced like Beaver). Bolton's was founded in the 1870s by Chester Bolton in Maple Acres, a small Vermont town where logging and maple syrup harvesting are the largest industries. Despite the name, Bolton's does not distill any hard liquor-- at least, not any more.

Historically they had distilled whiskey using maple syrup and a proprietary blend of herbs and spices. The drink was very popular in Vermont and had achieved some mild success in the neighboring states as well. However with the advent of prohibition in the 1920s and the death of the Chester, Bolton's was forced to sell their equipment and pivot to maple syrup refining. Chester's son Daniel had tried incredibly hard to weather prohibition and navigate the new industry, but Bolton's was bleeding money and fast becoming insolvent. Despite this, Chester was able to keep Bolton's going for another 10 years before selling his stake to some Italian businessmen from New York City. It is rumored that the men were connected to the mafia and had purchase Bolton's for the facilities, employee expertise, and, most importantly, the recipe in order to expand their bootlegging operation. However, these rumors are inconclusive and rely mostly on the accounts of locals who viewed the new owners' through the stereotypes of their time. No employees had ever admitted to participating in or witnessing bootlegging during this period, though it is to be noted that some bootlegged liquor started to resemble Bolton's once ownership changed hands.

Three years later, prohibition would be repealed and Bolton's would get a new lease on life. Within weeks, the distillery was operational again and bottling Bolton's whiskey. Riding the wave of legality, Bolton's would increase sales tenfold from its previous heights. After a year of this success, the current owners inked a deal to sell the company to Lightheart Brews and Tonics for a massive return on their investment. It is unknown what they did afterward.

Lightheart's owner at the time was Midge Lightheart who inherited the company from husband after he tragically passed at a young age. Midge took a middling gin business and aggressively oriented the company into what she called "casual" drinks. See, Midge did not like to drink alcohol as she was a teetotaler through-and-through despite marrying a man who both produced and frequently drank alcohol. Midge understood that the primary value of Lightheart was that it served alcoholic beverages but strongly believed that selling weaker drinks and "flavor enhancers" (what we would now call mixers) would uniquely position Lightheart to sell to those who either did not like to drink or consciously tried to drink less heavily. It wasn't an easy transition, but Midge was able to achieve great success exactly whe she had predicted and stuck it to those who doubted her. In celebration of her victory, she renamed the company from Lightheart Gin to Lightheart Brews and Tonics. Ever expanding, Midge looked to either buy her direct competition or release products that mirrored their flavor profile. By the time she would leave the company, they bolstered a catalog of over 250 products, many of which were incredibly niche and almost all of which were alcohol free.

Lightheart's purchase of Bolton's was motivated by one simple thing: take the recipe and make a weakly alcoholic drink under the Lightheart's brand name. This strategy worked countless times and Midge felt the sharp, yet sweet taste of Bolton's (as she understood it, since she refused to drink the whiskey directly) would be an excellent addition to the "wintery" drinks catalog. Getting the formula exactly right was unfortunately very difficult and they ended up creating more than five variations of the recipe in various "drink formats." Lightheart released all of them to the market and three of them immediately failed. One of the two, a mixer, was relatively popular among college aged adults and Canadian expats in the New England region. The other, a beer, sold well but only to the most core consumer base of Bolton's who were nostalgic for the whiskey. For such an expensive purchase, Midge considered this an absolute disaster and she was frequently heard calling the brand "Bastard's Whiskey" while walking through the halls of the Lightheart corporate office. Midge eventually pulled both the remaining products and had the workers at Bolton's produce other drinks for the company.

In 1950s, Lightheart's hit a bit of financial trouble after some risky investments and ill-advised rebrandings (one of which tried to axe alcohol completely). Desperate yet ruthless, Midge ordered her pencil pushers to find any underachieving or underutilized brands and both cut the workforce which originally produced them as well as attempt to sell what remains to whoever is willing to buy. Among the hundreds of workers affected were the brewers at Bolton's, a few of which who had worked there during the whiskey years. The news was incredibly devastating as not only would they be losing their job, many of them had no skills to readily reapply elsewhere, especially when Maple Acres and the towns in the immediate vicinity were experiencing a downturn. All they had known was distilling, brewing, and maple syrup, something that no one near them needed. After one week of unemployment one of the older master brewers, Kenneth Goethe, started to make the rounds at his former coworkers' homes. He invited them all to a farewell party, to commemorate their time at Bolton's and wish themselves well in the future. Many were reluctant, quite a few aggressively rejected the concept, but ultimately most had shown up at McMaster's Tavern in the heart of Maple Acres. Here they would sing, make merry, and most importantly, get incredibly drunk. As a special surprise, Kenneth had brought two drinks: the failed Lightheart maple beer and the classic Bolton's maple whiskey. He had gone down to the Bolton's facility and noticed that much of the equipment was unsold, some of which had survived prohibition and remained since the original founding. Bolton's boys eagerly drank their past, both separately and even mixed a bit. The nostalgia of their blood, sweat, and tears making both drinks over the years overwhelmed the former Bolton's boys and many of them sobbed while drinking.

Towards the end of the night, when most were barely able to stand and all were to call it quits, the youngest of the Bolton's crew, a 16 year old named Russell Jakubowicz, stood up on one of the tables and yelled "AWAKE LADS." Immediately garnering all the attention, or at least as much as everyone could muster at the time, Russell stood their and swayed for a while, hiccuping and burping. After a few seconds of awkward silence, Russell started to speak and he said the words which are now written on every bottle and engraved on the signboard above the brewery:

"Bolton's Belongs to Us All"

Legend would state that all the brewers would immediately connect with the words, lift Russell, carry him in the air to the brewery, break in, and immediately start brewing again. Unfortunately, reality isn't as entertaining. What actually happened is that after saying those now immortal words, Russell took a step forward towards the edge of the table and caused it to flip, throwing him into some brewers and, ultimately, the floor. Rioutous laughter was had and some of Bolton's boys lifted Russell up and out of the tavern, but their destination was the town doctor and not the means of production. Even so, Russell's statement and misstep did leave an impression; while walking home, the brewers discussed the words with each other, thoroughly enjoying the "what ifs" and the "and thens." Some went home and discussed it with their wives, others stayed up all night thinking and staring at the ceiling. By the next morning, what would've been just a humorous tale turned into action.

What comes next is rather boring but important-- the majority of the Bolton's workers met and agreed that they wanted to go into business for themselves. They pulled every bit of money they had and pooled it collectively, a rather small but very honest sum that they offered to Midge Lightheart in a letter leading with the bold words "To the very destinguished Madame" (yes, that misspelling was present in the original). What followed was their heart on their sleeve, every letter dripping with passion and each punctuation yearning for what Bolton's represented. Amazingly, not only did Midge receive the letter, she responded to it. She, in much more elegant and dainty terms, said it was surely theirs but not at that price. We don't know exactly what the number she said was, but it was far beyond what the Bolton's workers could afford. This should've been the end of it, but the boys had the fire in them to negotiate. Both parties went back and forth over correspondence, the Bolton's workers' promised amount getting larger and larger (to sums they very much did not have) but not quite at Midge's original figure. Eventually, she received the latest letter in the series and just rolled her eyes. It wasn't that Midge was heartless and greedy, but her own business was doing poorly and the offered amount was far below what she had paid for it. From her perspective, she was already taking a beating but shouldn't she at least be able to do so on her terms?

After months, Bolton's had gone unsold as the other brands under Lightheart's umbrella drifted away. Midge mostly avoided disaster but Lightheart was for sure worse off than it was only a few years prior. She hadn't given Bolton's a single thought in those months, but one day while having her morning tea it entered her mind but for a moment. Now, her frustration with the negotiation was behind her and now she had no care, no pride here. She figured she was better off being done with it and wrote her response after leaving the Bolton's workers hanging. A day later, she was surprised by a small group of the workers who had shown up to the Lightheart's main office, waiting to meet her. She welcomed them, a bit off put but curious, and asked if they were here to discuss the exact terms. No, they weren't. They were there to finish the deal! See they had secured a deal from a local investor who was a fan of Bolton's beer and had the cash on hand, at the ready. Now, the amount wasn't quite was agreed, but it was close. They were hoping the immediacy and enthusiasm would win her over. It hadn't, but her tiredness had. She let out a sigh, shook on it, and said her lawyers would send the contract over. The workers were a little confused and sheepishly moved a bulky knapsack behind their backs, which she then realized meant that they literally had the cash on hand, in front of her. She cracked a little smile at their amateur nature and assured them that things would be taken care of in the most expedient fashion possible. In the new year of 1955, the ink had dried and the workers had formed a cooperative to take ownership of Bolton's Vermont Distilling Company, a name they wouldn't change simply because this was all they had ever known.

This small victory for the workers of Bolton's would be one that lasted through the years-- while they would never be an international (or even just national) success, they had their market, their loyalists. The taste of Bolton's beer (now made with a splash of their classic whiskey) would be passed down from father to son, mother to daughter. And with those years came hardships but Bolton's weathered on. The solidarity of those workers and the pride in the brand meant that they would do anything to keep things going as it was yesterday. In times of financial distress, they'd all take pay cuts to ensure everyone remained employed and pool resources to make sure everyone got what they needed. As young Russell Jakubowicz once said, "Bolton's Belongs to Us All," a phrase which eventually spawned the similar "Bolton's Takes Care of Us All."

Now after over 150 years, nearly half of that under cooperative ownership, Bolton's facing it's most daunting challenge of all: apathy. See, that sense of pride and ownership has waned over the years. Fewer and fewer owner members had really known what it meant to take ownership over Bolton's. Many had taken it as some weird job where they brewed beer and also owned something? Others had "inherited" their position from their parents or other family members, perhaps not being able to pursue their other dreams and having to "settle" here. Worse yet, in the 2000s the owner members had also voted to allow a second class of worker, one that did not own a share in the company, to be present at Bolton's. This was done to expand the capable hands of the workforce as many owner members were less skilled than their predecessors while also preventing dilution of ownership. Needless to say, having two classes of workers led to some tensions and the "employee" class generally being somehow even less engaged in the well being of the company. For key positions, an attempt was made to fix this problem by paying much higher than normal wages compared to the rest of the employees. Unsurprisingly, this only exacerbated the issues as there were now three classes of worker: employee, owner member, and the "professionals." Years of this has compounded to make for a very unhealthy company overall; while some workers have immense pride in their work and the company they work for, most could not care less as long as money still direct deposits.

Now, facing another downturn from which there doesn't seem to be a path to recovery, there is talk of an acquisition on the horizon. Many are incredibly fearful of what that means. Some think it would be what saves the company. Others think it will result in mass layoffs. Despite the air of anxiety and uncertainty, the workers of this medium sized brewing company carry on working each and every day, one foot in front of the other.

Bolton's belongs to us all, for how much longer, we shall see.